Integrate external sru docs (#74)
canonical/ubuntu-packaging-guide: docs/explanation/development-process.rst

Stable Release Updates
----------------------

> After publication of a :term:`Ubuntu Stable Release`, there may be a need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After publication of an :term:`Ubuntu Stable Release`, there may be a need
```

> to update it or fix bugs. You can fix these newly discovered bugs and make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to update it or fix bugs. You can fix these newly-discovered bugs and make
```

updates through a special process known as **Stable Release Update (SRU)**.

The SRU process ensures that any changes made to a stable release are thoroughly

> vetted and tested before being made available to users. This is because many of
> the users rely on the stability of the stable release for their day-to-day

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vetted and tested before being made available to users. This is because many
users rely on the stability of the stable release for their day-to-day
```

operations, and any problem they experience with it can be disruptive.

The following paragraphs intend to give you a brief introduction to the SRU

> process. See the decicated :external+sru:ref:`Ubuntu SRU Documentation <home>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
process. See the dedicated :external+sru:ref:`Ubuntu SRU Documentation <home>`
```

When are SRUs necessary?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SRUs require great caution because they're automatically recommended to a large
number of users. So, when you propose an update, there should be a strong
rationale for it. Also, the update should present a low risk of
:ref:`regressions <Regressions>`.

You can propose an SRU in the following cases:

- To fix high-impact bugs, including those that may directly cause security
  vulnerabilities, severe regressions from the previous release, or
  bugs that may directly cause loss of user data.
- To adjust to changes in the environment, server protocols, or web services.
  This ensures that Ubuntu remains compatible with evolving technologies.
- For safe cases with low regression potential but high user experience 
  improvement.
- To introduce new features in :term:`LTS releases <LTS>`, usually under strict
  conditions.
- To update commercial software in the :term:`Canonical partner archive`.
- To fix :term:`Failed to build from Source` issues.
- To fix :term:`autopkgtest` failures, usually in conjunction with other
  high-priority fixes.

See also: :external+sru:doc:`SRU requirements <explanation/requirements>`

Overview
~~~~~~~~

> A typical SRU will be performed like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A typical SRU is performed like this:
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

> A typical SRU will be perfomed like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical SRU will be performed like this:
```

1. Ensure the bug is fixed in the :term:`current development release
   <Current Release in Development>` and all subsequent supported releases to
   ensure consistency across different Ubuntu versions, especially preventing

>    regressions when users upgrade to newer ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   regressions when users upgrade to newer releases.
```

#. Update the **existing** bug report detailing the Impact of the Bug, the Test
   Plan to verify that the bug was fixed and highlight where problems could
   occur.
#. Get the package with the SRU patch into the upload queue.

> #. The SRU team will then review from the unapproved queue. When the upload is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. The SRU team then reviews from the unapproved queue. When the upload is
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

   ready, the SRU team accepts the upload into the proposed pocket.

> #. Once the builds are ready, autopkgtest are triggered. Test the binaries

Reviewer: Do we have a good link that defines more about what autopkgtests are?

Reviewer 2: The resource will be the article in this guide (once it's added ;)): https://canonical-ubuntu-packaging-guide.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/how-to/run-tests/. In the meantime, the info is all over the place:

- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ProposedMigration#autopkgtests
- https://ubuntu-packaging-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ubuntu-packaging-guide/auto-pkg-test.html
- https://wiki.debian.org/ContinuousIntegration/autopkgtest
- https://people.debian.org/~eriberto/README.package-tests.html
- ...

Author: A few lines above there is a glossary entry reference to the term `autopkgtest`. I added relevant terms to the glossary for this topic.

See: b556d58383859e79c24eb5284a518f39a8864241

   in the :term:`Ubuntu Archive` and follow up in the bug report with your 
   verification results.

> #. The Ubuntu SRU Team will evaluate the testing feedback and move the package

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. The Ubuntu SRU Team evaluates the testing feedback and moves the package
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

>    into :ref:`updates <ArchivePockets_Updates>` after it passes a minimum aging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   into :ref:`updates <ArchivePockets_Updates>` after it passes a minimum ageing
```

   period of 7 days without regressions.

See :external+sru:ref:`how to perform an SRU <howto-perform-standard-sru>`.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once the SRU team accepts the SRU into the proposed pocket, the SRU has to be
verified by the reporter or affected users of the SRU bug in a software 
environment that closely resembles the state after the SRU team copies the

> package to the updates pocket. Generally, this will be with a system that's up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
package to the updates pocket. Generally, this is with a system that's up
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

> to date from the release, security, and updates pockets. It shouldn't include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to date with the release, security, and updates pockets. It shouldn't include
```

> other packages from the proposed or backports pocket, except commonly installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other packages from the proposed or backports pocket, except commonly-installed
```

packages built from the affected source package.

> Read more about this process :external+sru:doc:`here <howto/release>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read :external+sru:doc:`more about this process <howto/release>`.
```

SRU phasing
^^^^^^^^^^^

> Once a package is released to the updates pocket, the update is then phased 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a package is released to the updates pocket, the update is then phased, 
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

> so that the update is gradually made available to expanding subsets of Ubuntu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so it is gradually made available to expanding subsets of Ubuntu
```

users.

> Read :external+sru:ref:`more about this process <explanation-phasing>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read :external+sru:ref:`more about phasing <explanation-phasing>`.
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

> Read more about this process :external+sru:ref:`here <explanation-phasing>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read :external+sru:ref:`more about this process <explanation-phasing>`.
```

.. _Regressions:

Regressions
^^^^^^^^^^^

Regressions are unintended negative consequences that updates introduce.

> They appear as new bugs or failures in previously well-functioning aspect of an 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They appear as new bugs or failures in previously well-functioning aspects of an 
```

Ubuntu release. 

> Read more about regressions :external+sru:ref:`here <explanation-regressions>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read :external+sru:ref:`more about regressions <explanation-regressions>`
```

> and :external+sru:ref:`how to handle them <howto-report-regression>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and :external+sru:ref:`how to handle regressions <howto-report-regression>`.
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

> and how to handle them :external+sru:ref:`here <howto-report-regression>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and :external+sru:ref:`how to handle them <howto-report-regression>`.
```

Updates removal
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If a bug fixed by an update doesn't get any testing or verification feedback for

> 90 days, an automated "call for testing" comment will be made on the bug report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
90 days, an automated "call for testing" comment is made on the bug report.
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

> 90 days, an automated call for testing comment will be made on the bug report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
90 days, an automated "call for testing" comment will be made on the bug report.
```

> If no testing occurs within an additional 15 days, totaling 105 days without any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no testing occurs within an additional 15 days, totalling 105 days without any
```

> testing, the :term:`Stable Release Managers` will remove the package from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
testing, the :term:`Stable Release Managers` removes the package from
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

proposed and close the bug task as ``Won't Fix``.

> Also, updates will be removed from proposed if they introduce a non-trivial

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, updates are removed from proposed if they introduce a non-trivial
```

Author: Resolved with: 2d97be5f0cbe0ba604812c9ef07ae53d81f6a7a5

> Also, updates will be removed from proposed if they introduce a nontrivial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, updates will be removed from proposed if they introduce a non-trivial
```
